# Space-Invaders

I chose to build this project as Game Developent is an industry I am very passionate about. I enjoy playing video games as a hobby, but what facinates me the most about the video game world is the amount of creativity and passion is displayed in every screen, animation, sprite, and sound effect that you may encounter. The passion displayed in a video game or a project was exactly what I was trying to get out of this project when I decided to recreate Sapce Invaders from scratch.

My biggest challenge in this project was the movement of my bullets shot by the space ship and enemies. I designed a regular bullet sprite and a completely black bullet sprite, where its only task was to follow the regular bullet so that the regular bullet wouldn't leave a trail as it made its way across the screen. Although it was a great challenge to overcome, I had a great time debugging parts of the bullet movement code as I really got to understand every individual line and get a better understanding of the hard work that is put behind all of my favorite video games. 

My most significant takeaway about this project was to take the time to understand what it takes to create a complete game like Space Invaders. Creation of sprites, sound effect designs, number of screens that need to be created, high score/leaderboard implementation, and so much more comes into making a game people can love and enjoy. A great aspect about this project is that it has helped me so much with future projects I have completed that have nothing to do with game development at all.

My two main areas of trouble were debugging my sprites movement and deleting sprites off the screen when needed to. I asked a professor for help and his opinion on how I implemented some of my functions and provided me great guidance to solve these main issues by thinking about them logically. One of my biggest takeways about software engineering/programming has been that not all the debugging comes from your computer screen but also from your mind or a sheet of paper where you can draw up what your goal is with a certain function and just think about it at a logical level. 
